In your final Fall presentation you will be asked to discuss the major constraints on your project design. To this end, in this assignment your group should write a short essay (10-12 sentences) that address 3-4 topical areas that may constrain the possible solutions for your project. Here are some possible constraint topical areas that apply to your project.

Economic
Professional
Ethical
Legal
Security
Social
Environmental
Diversity and Cultural Impact
The main questions to keep in mind:
Does a particular topical area factor into your solution and impact the kinds of solutions that are viable for your project (and if so, how)?

Economic: are there financial limitations to the solution? For example, are you relying on freeware or shareware, or do you have a budget for actual purchases? Are your funds supplied personally or by a company? Are you restricted to UC or other facilities? Will your solution contribute to economic development?

Professional: does your project have a direct or indirect impact on your professional development or public reputation? Does your project need and apply specialized expertise?

Ethical: does your project have a direct or indirect moral impact on someone? If so, what concerns or precautions are being considered to insure that this impact is positive (or neutral) and not negative?

Legal: Are there legal issues or constraints associated with your project? For example, will you be using intellectual property that may be in dispute?

Security: Are there security concerns with your project? Are potential viruses or eavesdropping an issue? Are there privacy concerns?

Social: will your project be used for public service? Will it be used by a non-profit agency? Does it have some benefit for society? Does it enhance people’s lives or quality of life in some way?

Environmental: are there limitations about where and how the project will be used or deployed? Are there concerns about environmental impacts such as pollution or other potentially harmful side effects? Will the project impact environmental conditions? Will the project reduce environmental impact of currently existing solutions?

Diversity and Cultural: Are there any cultural constraints, such as language, lifestyle, or local customs that will impact your solution? How does promoting diversity and diverse use play a role in the design of your project?

